Adds Vue Styleguide #481 (#482)
archesproject/arches-docs: docs/developing/vue/arches-vue-styleguide.rst

Reviewer: One comment about the formatting if this document.
I've seen several ways in which a heading of some sort with only 1 child value is presented in several different ways.  

- **No negative margins**  
    Negative `margin-*` values are forbidden.

or 

- **Kebab-case**  
    - All attribute names (including custom props and events) **must** use kebab-case.

or

- **Script Scope**:  
  All component logic **must** reside within `<script setup>`—no module-scope side-effects.

etc...

We should just standardize this as in the "Kebab-case" example above to use child bullet points which would be consistent with items that have more than one child.

Contributions
=============

This style guide is a living document that evolves over time. We welcome contributions from the community to improve and expand this guide further. If you have suggestions, feedback, or would like to contribute to the style guide, please reach out to us via the `Arches Forum <https://community.archesproject.org/>`_.

Project Directory Structure & Naming
=====================================

File and Folder Naming Conventions
----------------------------------

**Arches entity directories** — Plural, lowercase names that reflect domain concepts (e.g. ``cards/``, ``widgets/``, ``reports/``).

**Vue component directories** — One folder per component, named in PascalCase (e.g. ``CustomComponent/``).

**Non-Vue component directories** — Utility or helper folders in kebab-case (e.g. ``custom-utility/``, ``date-utils/``).

**Vue components** — PascalCase filenames with a ``.vue`` extension (e.g. ``UserCard.vue``, ``MapViewer.vue``).

**Utilities & helpers** — kebab-case with a ``.js`` or ``.ts`` extension (e.g. ``fetch-api.ts``, ``format-date.js``).

> **Type files** — Single-purpose type definitions in kebab-case ``.ts`` (e.g. ``user-profile.ts``, ``map-types.ts``).

Reviewer: does this mean 1 file per type?, because we haven't been doing that to date.  Usually we've had a types.ts file that we put types into.  This seems nice for several reasons (prevents file proliferation, also, often times types inherit from other types in which case these files just become more verbose with import statements etc..)

        <OrderDetails :total-orders="totalOrders" />
    </template>

**Why?**

- **Performance**: Avoids recomputing derived values in multiple components.
- **Predictable props**: Child components receive only the exact values they need.
- **Consistency**: Ensures every consumer uses the same computed values, preventing drift.

Event Emission
--------------

Emit semantic events (kebab-case) with typed payloads:

.. code-block:: vue

    <script setup lang="ts">
    const ROW_SELECTED_EVENT = 'row-selected' as const;

    interface RowSelectedEvent { rowId: number }

    const emit = defineEmits<{
        (event: typeof ROW_SELECTED_EVENT, payload: RowSelectedEvent): void
    }>();

    function onRowClick(id: number) {
        emit(ROW_SELECTED_EVENT, { rowId: id });
    }
    </script>

**Why?**

- **Explicit contracts**: Consumers know exactly what events to expect and how to handle them.
- **Type safety**: TypeScript ensures the payload matches the expected structure.

The <script> Tag
==================

This block defines a component's logic. Follow these rules for clarity, consistency, and maintainability.

Coding Standards
----------------

**Script Scope**

> All component logic must be declared inside ``<script setup>``, and ``<script setup>`` should always have TypeScript as the defined language.

Reviewer: highlights lang="ts"

```suggestion
All component logic must be declared inside ``<script setup lang="ts">`` tags with TypeScript as the defined language.
```

Single-File Components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Single-File Components (SFCs) are the preferred way to define Vue components. They encapsulate the template, script, and style in a single file, making it easier to manage and understand the component's structure.

.. code-block:: js

    <script setup lang="ts">
    import { onMounted } from 'vue';
    import { useGettext } from 'vue3-gettext';

    const { $gettext } = useGettext();

    onMounted(() => {
        console.log($gettext('Hello from the <script> tag!'));
    });
    </script>

    <template>
        <h1 class="header">
            {{ $gettext("Hello from the template!") }}
        </h1>
    </template>

    <style scoped>
    .header {
        color: red;
    }
    </style>

Component Decomposition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Components should be decomposed into smaller, reusable components whenever possible. This promotes reusability and maintainability. Aim for a single responsibility per component.

.. code-block:: shell

    widgets/
    └── CustomWidget/
        ├── components/
        │   ├── CustomWidgetEditor.vue
        │   └── CustomWidgetViewer.vue
        └── CustomWidget.vue

Passing Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - **Fetch Proximity**:  

Author: Hmm this is a tough one. We _do_ expect to have dozens of children hitting endpoints with identical responses. Eg widget config fetching, section data fetching, etc.

> - **Fetch Proximity**:  

Reviewer 2: Given that design, it's probably a sign we need to make sure we're sending appropriate cache headers. I think downstream caches will assume GET's are safe to cache, and if we have a bunch of perms-filtering logic, we need to clarify that with the correct headers.

  Fetch data in the component that actually renders it. Don't lift network calls higher than needed.

.. code-block:: js

    <!-- Bad: fetching at a high-level parent when only the table needs it -->

    <!-- Dashboard.vue -->
    <script setup lang="ts">

>     import { ref, onMounted } from 'vue'

Reviewer: We absolutely need semicolons!  It's like not putting a period at the end of a sentence.

    import UserTable from '@/my_project/Dashboard/components/UserTable.vue'

    // Parent fetches users even if only UserTable displays them
    const users = ref([])
    onMounted(async () => {
        users.value = await fetch('/api/users').then(resp => resp.json())

>     })

Author: I hear you on `onMounted` and `watchEffect`. I think using `watchEffect` for calls that don't have data that could change within the component is overkill, but I don't feel strongly enough to dig my heels in here. It's been common since the early React days to use the hook but yeah I get what you're saying.

 What I _do_ feel strongly about are unguarded side-effects in the script tag ( eg just calling myFunction() ).

But ya I'll update the docs

            <!-- Data passed down via prop -->
            <UserTable :users="users" />
        </div>
    </template>

    <!-- Good: fetching as close as possible to where data is rendered -->

    <!-- Dashboard.vue -->
    <script setup lang="ts">
    // Parent no longer fetches users
    </script>

    <template>
        <div class="dashboard">
            <h1>Dashboard</h1>
            <!-- Child responsible for its own data -->
            <UserTable />
        </div>
    </template>

    <!-- UserTable.vue -->
    <script setup lang="ts">
    import { ref, onMounted } from 'vue'
    import type { User } from '@/types'

    // Fetch proximity: fetch here since this component renders the list
    const users = ref<User[]>([])
    onMounted(async () => {
        users.value = await fetch('/api/users').then(resp => resp.json())
    })
    </script>

    <template>
        <table>
            <tbody>
                <tr v-for="user in users" :key="user.id">
                    <td>{{ user.name }}</td>
                    <td>{{ user.email }}</td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
    </template>

- **Primitives First**:  

>   Pass simple values (strings, numbers, booleans, small arrays/objects) instead of entire model objects whenever possible.

Author: ah yeah this could be a sticking point. I updated the docs with my reasoning ( and happy to link some resources here for backup ). Def happy to chat about this, and I only feel _somewhat_ strongly about this

>   Pass simple values (strings, numbers, booleans, small arrays/objects) instead of entire model objects whenever possible.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, did you push up those updates?

.. code-block:: html

    <!-- Bad: passing entire model objects -->
    <UserProfile :user="currentUser" />

    <!-- Good: passing only primitive values -->
    <UserProfile
        :user-id="currentUser.id"
        :user-name="currentUser.name"
        :is-admin="currentUser.isAdmin"
    />

- **Derived State**:  
  Compute any summaries or transformations in the consumer component and pass those primitives down.

.. code-block:: js

    <!-- ParentComponent.vue -->
    <script setup lang="ts">
    import { ref, computed, onMounted } from 'vue'
    import type { Order } from '@/types'

    // Raw data fetched here
    const orders = ref<Order[]>([])
    onMounted(async () => {
        orders.value = await fetch('/api/orders').then(r => r.json())
    })

    // Derived state: compute primitives
    const orderCount = computed(() => orders.value.length)
    const totalSales = computed(() =>
        orders.value.reduce((sum, order) => sum + order.amount, 0)
    )
    </script>

    <template>
        <!-- Pass only the computed primitives -->

>         <OrderSummary

Reviewer: I not sure this is the greatest example.  If the "OrderSummary" component is supposed summarize orders, I'd most likely pass in the entire "orders" object into the "OrderSummary" component and let the component do what it says (ie, summarize the orders in any way it sees fit).  Passing in individual values, computed or otherwise, presumes the parent knows a lot about what the "OrderSummary" component does.

Author: ++ ! updated it to be clearer

    <template>
        <div class="order-summary">
            <p>Total Orders: {{ props.count }}</p>
            <p>Total Sales: {{ props.totalSales }}</p>
        </div>
    </template>

- **Event Emission**:  
  Emit semantic events (kebab-case) with typed payloads:

.. code-block:: js

    <script setup lang="ts">
    interface RowSelectedEvent { rowId: number }

    defineEmits<{
        (e: 'row-selected', payload: RowSelectedEvent): void
    }>()

    function onRowClick(id: number) {
        emit('row-selected', { rowId: id })
    }
    </script>

- **Slots**:  
  Use scoped slots for maximum flexibility; name them clearly

.. code-block:: html

    <MyTable>
        <template #header>
            {{ $gettext('Table Header') }}
        </template>
        <template #row="{ row }">
            <MyRow :data="row" />
        </template>
    </MyTable>

The `<script>` Tag
==================

This block defines a component's logic. Follow these rules for clarity, consistency, and maintainability.

Coding Standards
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Script Scope**:  
  All component logic **must** reside within `<script setup>`—no module-scope side-effects.

- **Function Declarations**:  

>     - Use named `function` declarations for component methods; **do not** use anonymous functions or function expressions.

Reviewer: Also, for some of us (ahem), it might be nice to have a short exmple of what a function declaration is vs a function expression.

>     - Use named `function` declarations for component methods; **do not** use anonymous functions or function expressions.

Author: Done and done. good idea!

    - Use of anonymous functions is allowed within parent functions (e.g., `setTimeout`, `Promise.then`, `filter`, `onMounted`, `computed`, etc.).

- **Constants & Literals**:  
    - Declare fixed values in `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE`.  
    - Declare all string literals and magic numbers as named constants.
      e.g. `const POLL_MS = 5000;` 

- **Naming Conventions**:  
  Use descriptive identifiers; avoid single-letter names.

- **Modularity & Reuse**:  
  Extract non-UI logic (data transformations, business rules) into composables or utility modules.  

- **Side-Effects & Async Handling**:  
    - No side-effects in the `<script>` tag. Encapsulate API calls, formatting logic, and other side-effects in lifecycle hooks or composables.

>     - Wrap all async operations in `try/catch`, and surface or display errors appropriately.

Reviewer: How about `then/except`?
```suggestion
    - Wrap all async operations in `try/catch` or `then/except`, and surface or display errors appropriately.
```

Author: where are you seeing a working JS pattern that uses `except`?

Reviewer 2: I think Alexei meant `catch()`, which means he thought you meant `try/except`, which means he didn't catch (ha) that you were intending to refer to both `try` and `.then().catch()` -- I take his point we could reword slightly to avoid this potential confusion

Reviewer: > where are you seeing a working JS pattern that uses `except`?

Thanks @jacobtylerwalls , yeah, I did mean `catch` (python confusion there...)  I think what I was pointing out was that `.then().catch()` can be used as an alternative way to provide error handling for async functions.  

Maybe what that really means is that this rule should emphasize the requirement to always handle for errors rather than be prescriptive about how you do it.

- **Type Safety**:  

>   Import and use explicit types; avoid `any`. Annotate all function return types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Import and use explicit types; avoid use of the `any` type. Annotate all function return types.
```

    import { fetchData } from '@/project_name/utils/fetch-data.ts' 

Import Order
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Import lines should be grouped and ordered as follows:

1. **Vue core**  
2. **Third-party modules**  
3. **Third-party Vue components**  
4. **Local Vue components**  
5. **Local utilities/composables**  
6. **Third-party types**  
7. **Local types**  

.. code-block:: js

    <script setup lang="ts">
    // 1. Vue core
    import { ref, computed } from 'vue'

    // 2. Third-party modules
    import { useGettext } from 'vue3-gettext'

    // 3. Third-party Vue components
    import { ProgressSpinner } from 'primevue/progressspinner'

    // 4. Local Vue components
    import MyComponent from '@/project_name/components/MyComponent.vue'

    // 5. Local utilities/composables
    import { fetchData } from '@/project_name/utils/fetchData.ts'

    // 6. Third-party types
    import type { Component } from 'vue'

    // 7. Local types
    import type { UserProfile } from '@/project_name/types.ts'

    // Your component logic here
    </script>

Declaration Order
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Within your `<script setup>` block, organize declarations in this sequence. Omit any steps that don’t apply.

> 1. **`defineProps`**  

Author: Would you mind clarifying this a bit more, in the context of what's currently in the guide?

2. **`defineEmits` / `defineExpose`**  
3. **Composables instantiation**:  
   e.g. `const { $gettext } = useGettext()`  
4. **Dependency injection**:  
   e.g. `const api = inject('apiClient')!`  
5. **Constants & configuration**:  
   e.g. `const POLL_MS = 5000`
6. **Reactive state**:  
   e.g. `const foo = ref(...)`  
7. **Computed properties**  
8. **Watches**  
9. **Lifecycle hooks**:  
   e.g. `onMounted()`, `onBeforeUnmount()`  

> 10. **Methods / functions**  

Reviewer: I would prefer that 9 and 10 are reversed.  Lifecycle hooks trigger/use all of the above.  Those things tend to be the thing I know is the last part in the script tag.  Even though I "get" function hoisting, I still naturally think about functions as being declared above the things that call them.

Author: This is something I feel pretty strongly about. The reason for this ordering is to support the 'big picture' flow of components. If I'm attempting to understand a new component, knowing when it does things is more important important information than how. Also we already have components that have hundreds of lines of functions, which I don't to scroll through to get to the hooks. And conversely, would you except `defineExpose`, `defineEmits`, `watch`-ers, and `computed`s to be declared below functions as well? As they can also use declared functions.

Reviewer: Examples in the Vue docs have lifecycle hooks as the last items in the script tag, and we, ourselves, tend to do that as well when I review what we've done in the past.  I was really expressing a preference.  But then this is what this whole exercise is about.

      loadData();
    });

    // 10. Methods / functions
    async function loadData() {
      try {
        isLoading.value = true;
        data.value = await api.fetchItems(props.id);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(err);
      } finally {
        isLoading.value = false;
        emit('loaded');
      }
    }
    </script>

The `<template>` Tag
====================

Defines the component's UI. Keep templates clear, consistent, and easy to scan.

Attribute Ordering & Formatting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When declaring attributes in your `<template>`, group and order them as follows. Within each group, sort attributes alphabetically.

1. **Directives** (e.g. `v-for`, `v-if`)  
2. **Slots** (e.g. `v-slot:header="…"` )
3. **Static attributes** (e.g. `id`, `class`)  
4. **Dynamic props** (e.g. `:prop="…"` )  
5. **Event listeners** (e.g. `@click="…"` )  
6. **Modifiers** (e.g. `@click.prevent="…"` )  

Formatting rules:

- **Inline vs. Multiline**  
    - **One attribute** → keep on the same line as the tag.  
    - **Multiple attributes** → one per line, indented under the tag.  
- **Explicit assignment**  
    - Always write `prop="value"` or `:prop="value"`.  

>     - Do **not** use shorthand (`:prop` without value) or omit values.  

Reviewer: yes!

- **Kebab-case**  
    - All attribute names (including custom props and events) **must** use kebab-case.

.. code-block:: html

    <!-- Good: grouped, ordered, multiline, kebab-case -->
    <UserCard
        v-if="isVisible"
        v-slot:default="{ user }"
        id="user-card"
        class="card highlight"
        :avatar-url="user.avatarUrl"
        :is-active="user.isActive"
        @mouseover="onHover"
        @submit.prevent="onSubmit"
    />

>     <!-- Bad: unordered, inline, camelCase -->

Reviewer 3: I appreciate the bad examples as much as the good.

    <UserCard id="userCard" :avatarUrl="user.avatarUrl" @submit.prevent="onSubmit" v-if="isVisible"/>

Self-Closing Tags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use self-closing syntax for elements or components without children:

.. code-block:: html

    <template>
        <LogoIcon />
        <img src="@/assets/logo.png" alt="Logo" />
    </template>

Logic in Templates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **No complex logic**  
    - Avoid ternaries, chained method calls, or heavy expressions.  
    - Move conditions and transformations into `computed` or methods.  

.. code-block:: html

    <!-- Good: simple v-if, logic lives in computed -->
    <template>
        <div v-if="isVisible">{{ displayText }}</div>
    </template>

    <!-- Bad: inline ternary and method call -->
    <template>
        <div>{{ isVisible ? formatText(user.name) : '—' }}</div>
    </template>

Text in Templates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Internationalization**  
  - Wrap all user-facing strings with `$gettext()`.  

>   - Avoid string concatenation; use formatting placeholders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Never concatenate translated strings together; use placeholders instead (eg: $gettext('Hello, %{name}'))
```

            <Button @click="handleClick">
                {{ $gettext('Click me!') }}
            </Button>
        </div>
    </template>

    <!-- Bad: unwrapped text node -->
    <template>
        <div>
            {{ $gettext('Hello, world!') }}

            <Button @click="handleClick">
                {{ $gettext('Click me!') }}
            </Button>
        </div>
    </template>

The `<style>` Tag
=================

Defines component-scoped CSS. Follow these rules for responsive, maintainable, and themeable styles.

Scope
~~~~~

- **Scoped styles**  
    - Prefer to use `<style scoped>` to ensure styles are applied only to the component.  
    - Reserve global styles and design tokens for your global CSS or theme files unless absolutely necessary.

Layout Patterns
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Flexbox & Grid only**  
    Use `display: flex` for one-dimensional layouts and `display: grid` for two-dimensional arrangements.  
- **Use `gap`**  
    Space items with `gap`; do **not** rely on margins for core layout.  
- **No legacy hacks**  
    Never use `float`, `inline-block`, or other outdated techniques.

Units & Sizing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **`rem` for nearly everything**  

>     Use `rem` units for spacing, typography, gaps, borders, and other dimensional values.

Reviewer 2: I think there usability/accessibility reasons we wouldn't want horizontal space and borders to scale with the font size, as argued [here](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/surprising-truth-about-pixels-and-accessibility/).

Whatever we land on, would be nice to get it enforced with stylelint or similar pre-commit hook, happy 2 help with this one 👍

Reviewer: I've read that same article and I think it makes some salient points about how "rem" everywhere might not make sense especially considering accessibility.

Author: Let's table this for the moment, and loop back around after everything else settles. There is definitely discussion to be had here.

- **Viewport units sparingly**  
    Reserve `vh`/`vw` for elements that must span the viewport (e.g., full-screen sections or modals).

- **Percentages for fluid layouts**  
    Apply `%` when you need relative sizing (e.g., fluid widths in responsive grids).

- **No `px`**  
    Avoid `px` units entirely to ensure scalability, accessibility, and consistent theming.

Offsets & Positioning
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- **No hard-coding single-side offsets**  

>     Instead of using `margin-left`, `margin-top`, etc., use logical properties like `margin-inline-start` and `margin-block-start`. This ensures proper alignment in different writing modes.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the explanation!

>     Instead of using `margin-left`, `margin-top`, etc., use logical properties like `margin-inline-start` and `margin-block-start`. This ensures proper alignment in different writing modes.

Reviewer 2: getting the word "direction" in here might be more clear than "mode"

Reviewer 3: Agreed!

Reviewer: Maybe this: "This ensures consistent alignment between left-to-right and right-to-left page rendering."

.. code-block:: css

    /* Bad */
    .Overlay {
        margin-right: 2rem;
    }

    /* Good */
    <style scoped>
        .Overlay {
            margin-inline-end: 2rem;
        }
    </style>

- **No negative margins**  
    Negative `margin-*` values are forbidden.

No `calc()`
~~~~~~~~~~~

- The `calc()` function is forbidden in component styles.

Theming & Colors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - **No hard-coded colors**  

Reviewer 2: We might want to point out how to do colorScheme here for light/dark mode, which as you know is well hidden in the primevue docs (unless we want a separate doc for working with primevue?)

    Prefer to reference design tokens, e.g. `var(--theme-primary)`.  
- **Centralize tokens**  
    Define colors, typography, spacing scales, and breakpoints in your theme files.

Selector Naming
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Dot-delineated hierarchy**  
    Prefix selectors with the component's root class, then chain child class names:

.. code-block:: css

    <style scoped>
        .user-card {
            display: flex;
            flex-direction: column;
            gap: 1rem;
        }
        .user-card.header {
            display: grid;
            grid-template-columns: 1fr auto;
            gap: 0.5rem;
        }
        .user-card.header.title {
            font-size: 1.5rem;
            color: var(--theme-primary);
        }

>     </style>

Reviewer: the example here aren't actually applied heirarchically.  
`.user-card.header` would be applied to an element like so `<element class="user-card header">`
If you're looking for something heirarchical use this
`.user-card .header` which would apply to something like this 
```
<element class="user-card">
    ....
    <element class="header">
    ....
</element>
```

Author: lol good catch

            └── reports/
                └── CustomReport/
                    ├── CustomReport.vue
                    └── CustomReport.spec.ts

Writing Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When crafting your tests, adhere to these best practices:

- **Isolation**  
  Mount each component on its own—stub or mock child components to pinpoint issues precisely.

- **Coverage**  
  Cover all code paths, including edge cases (error states, conditional rendering, emitted events).

- **Readability**  
  Use clear, descriptive test names and group related tests with ``describe`` blocks.

- **Async Handling**  
  Use ``flushPromises`` or ``await nextTick()`` after triggering asynchronous updates.

- **Cleanup**  
  Unmount or destroy wrappers if they persist between tests (though Vitest's JSDOM resets per test by default).

.. code-block:: js

    <!-- src/components/CounterButton.vue -->
    <script setup lang="ts">
    import { ref } from 'vue';

    const count = ref(0);
    function increment() {
        count.value++;
    }
    </script>

    <template>
        <button @click="increment" class="counter">
            Count: {{ count }}
        </button>
    </template>

    <style scoped>

>     .counter { padding: 0.5rem 1rem; }

Reviewer 2: How do you feel about one-liner selectors?

Author: ah good call out. I feel the same about them as about attrs in the template: 1 is good, more needs to be broken out into multiple lines. Will add to the doc!

    </style>

.. code-block:: js

    // src/components/CounterButton.spec.ts

>     import { describe, it, expect } from 'vitest'

Reviewer 2: semicolons?

    defineEmits<{
        (e: 'row-selected', payload: RowSelectedEvent): void
    }>()

    function onRowClick(id: number) {
        emit('row-selected', { rowId: id })
    }
    </script>

- **Slots**:  
  Use scoped slots for maximum flexibility; name them clearly

.. code-block:: html

    <MyTable>
        <template #header>
            {{ $gettext('Table Header') }}
        </template>
        <template #row="{ row }">
            <MyRow :data="row" />
        </template>
    </MyTable>

The `<script>` Tag
==================

This block defines a component's logic. Follow these rules for clarity, consistency, and maintainability.

Coding Standards
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Script Scope**:  
  All component logic **must** reside within `<script setup>`—no module-scope side-effects.

- **Function Declarations**:  
    - Use named `function` declarations for component methods; **do not** use anonymous functions or function expressions.
    - Use of anonymous functions is allowed within parent functions (eg `setTimeout`, `Promise.then`, `filter`, `onMounted`, `computed`, etc.).

- **Constants & Literals**:  
    - Declare fixed values in `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE`.  

>     - Extract all string literals and magic numbers into named constants.

Reviewer 4: What is meant by 'extract'? Extract to a separate file? Do they need to be in a separate file if they are used only in a single component or should they simply be declared within that component?

Author: I rephrased -- leaving this one for you to resolve if it sounds good

                        <td>{{ user.email }}</td>
                    </tr>
                </tbody>
            </table>
        </template>

      
    - **Why?** 
        - **Encapsulation**: Data-fetch logic lives alongside the view that consumes it.  
        - **Limited prop drilling**: Minimizes passing data through unrelated parents.   
        - **Error isolation**: Failures are handled locally, without cascading side effects.  

- **Primitives First**
    - Pass simple values (strings, numbers, booleans, small arrays/objects) instead of entire model objects whenever possible.

    .. code-block:: vue

        <!-- Bad: passing entire model objects -->
        <UserProfile :user="currentUser" />

        <!-- Good: passing only primitive values -->
        <UserProfile
            :user-id="currentUser.id"
            :user-name="currentUser.name"
            :is-admin="currentUser.isAdmin"
        />
    
    - **Why?** 
        - **Explicit API**: Readers, tools, and developers see exactly which fields the component needs.  
        - **Immutable flow**: Primitives can't be mutated in place, preserving one-way data flow.  

>         - **Efficient updates**: Changes to unused object properties won't force re-renders.  

Reviewer 2: Thanks for adding, I'm digging this now 👍

            return fetch('/api/data').then(response => response.json());
        }

    - **Why?**
        - **Type safety**: Using explicit types helps catch errors at compile time, reducing runtime issues.
        - **Documentation**: Type annotations serve as documentation for function behavior and expected input/output.

Import Pathing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Use project alias** (`@/…`) for all local imports; avoid raw relative paths. e.g. 

    .. code-block:: js

        // Bad: raw relative path
        import { fetchData } from '../../utils/fetch-data.ts';
        
        // Good: project alias
        import { fetchData } from '@/project_name/utils/fetch-data.ts';

- **Why?**
    - **Readability**: Project aliases make it clear where the module is located without needing to trace relative paths.
    - **Maintainability**: Avoids issues with deep nesting and makes it easier to refactor or reorganize the project structure.

Import Order
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Import lines should be grouped and ordered as follows:
    1. **Vue core**  
    2. **Third-party modules**  
    3. **Third-party Vue components**  
    4. **External Arches Vue components**
    5. **Local Vue components**  

>     6. **External Arches utilities/composables**

Reviewer 2: Seems to not follow 8-10 below which do 3rd party, 2nd party (arches apps), 1st party
